hey guys david here from googoo 255 tuck
tutorials and today i'm going to be
showing you how to make an icon this
will work on any version of windows so
first off you're going to need a program
called GIMP it is free and you can
download it from the link in the
description below this will also work in
Photoshop because the steps are similar
but for this tutorial I'll just be using
GIMP anyway so to start off making your
icon you'll want to go ahead and open up
GIMP okay now once it is open you're
going to want to go to file then click
new for the width you're going to want
to type 204 the height you're going to
want to type 200 it doesn't necessarily
matter what the numbers are but they
need to be the same so that the icon is
square I would just suggest using 200
for each since it's the easiest way to
do that anyways once you've typed that
in you could click OK ok so now that we
have done that the first thing that
you're going to want to do is over here
in the layers window which you could
bring out by pressing ctrl L on your
keyboard if you don't see it you're
gonna want to right-click the background
layer and click add alpha Channel next
up here you're going to want to click
select then click all after that hit the
Delete key on your keyboard to make the
icon transparent okay now you want to
add a new layer by clicking this button
over here and when this comes up all you
need to do is click OK make sure to
select it over here before you start
adding things to your icon now for my
icon I'm just going to make a red square
with the white s in the middle but keep
in mind that you can do this any way
that you want so I'm just going to speed
up the process of me actually designing
a logo just to keep the video short just
keep in mind that for each item that you
add to your icon you snow who's making
new layer before you do it and by
clicking this button over here
okay now that I have the design for my
logo I'm going to save it but first we
need to merge all the layers and you
could do that by clicking the uppermost
layer and just click merge down and keep
on doing that with the uppermost layers
until you only have one layer once
you've done that you can go to file and
then you're going to need to click Save
As make sure that all images is selected
down here and what you're going to want
to do is navigate to the place that you
want to save it so for me I'm just gonna
save it in my pictures and you're gonna
want to give it a name so I'm just gonna
call it icon and then after the name
you're gonna want to put dot ICO don't
forget to put that or else it won't save
it as an icon file and you won't be able
to use it but once you've done that you
want to click Save and when this comes
up all you need to do is click Save okay
now to apply our icon so we can go ahead
and exit out of GIMP because we have
already saved our icon and I have this
shortcut here on my desktop that I want
to use my icon on so you could do this
with any shortcut so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to right-click the
shortcut go to properties click change
icon click browse and then browse to
wherever I saved it and in my case I
saved it in pictures so I'm going to
select my icon that I made click open
and it should be selected over here just
click OK I'm going to click apply and
then ok and as you can see on my desktop
here I have my shutdown shortcut with
the icon that I made so thanks for
watching and I hope I helped if you like
this video please go ahead and gives it
give it a thumbs up and if you have any
questions requests or comments leave
them in the comments below also don't
forget to subscribe to be notified when
I have a new video and like a goody 5
tech tutorials on Facebook and follow
googoo 255 tech tutorials on twitter to
get the latest technology news all the
links are in the description below